# Practice With AES

This repository is for proof purpose only, don't use this code for your personal data. Use specific and secure tools for this.

This repository wants to collect the encryption process via the AES 256 block cipher algorithm. Just to learn and understand how the algorithm works.

# How it works

The AES 256 CBC algorithm is based on four data:

- Salt,
- IV,
- Key or
- Password

For encryption data, AES needs to have an IV, Initial Vector, and a Key. Basically, AES CBC, Cipher Block Chaining, is an algorithm that cyclically applies four types of applications on a 128-bit matrix, 16 bytes:

1. Subbytes
2. Shifrows
3. MixColumns
4. AddRoundKey

The AES key is generated by PBKDF2, Password Based Key Derivation Function 2. PBKDF2 requires Salt, Password and an algorithm as SHA256. The key generated by PBKDF2 is used by the AES algorithm to encrypt plaitext.

The code starts with setting the necessary data. After, it creates the key via PBKDF2 and then it's ready to encrypt and decrypt the data. My code uses the Data class for a quick conversion of the format such as Bytes, Hex and Base64. You can also print filtered debugging information for the desired data format.

# Requirements

This code is based on [PyCryptoDome](https://pypi.org/project/pycryptodome/).

# Notes

I'm not an encryption expert, so if you're interested to learn more, study AES from other sources. Start from [Wikipedia AES page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) and then from specific books or authoritative sources.
